README.md, before:

# 🥞🦜 askFSDL 🦜🥞

askFSDL is a demonstration of a retrieval-augmented question-answering application.

You can try it out via the Discord bot frontend in the
[Full Stack Discord](https://fsdl.me/join-discord-askfsdl)!

We use our educational materials as a corpus:
the [Full Stack LLM Bootcamp](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/llm-bootcamp),
the [Full Stack Deep Learning course](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/course).

So the resulting application is great at answering questions like

- What are the differences between PyTorch, TensorFlow, and JAX?
- How do I build an ML team?
- Which is cheaper: running experiments on cheap, slower GPUs or fast, more expensive GPUs?
- What's a data flywheel?

## Stack

We use [`langchain`](https://github.com/hwchase17/langchain)
to organize our LLM invocations and prompt magic.

We stood up a MongoDB instance on
[Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database)
to store our cleaned and organized document corpus.
See the `Running ETL to Build the Document Corpus` notebook.

For fast search of relevant documents to insert into our prompt,
we use a [FAISS index](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss).

We host the application backend on
[Modal](https://modal.com/),
which provides serverless execution and scaling.
That's also where we execute batch jobs,
like writing to the document store and refreshing the vector index.

We host the Discord bot,
written in [`discord.py`](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/),
on a free-tier
[AWS EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/)
instance,
which we provision and configure with
[Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/).

We use
[Gantry](https://gantry.io)
to monitor model behvaior in production and collect feedback from users.

Commit message:

adds setup documentation (#36)
* added step by step

* added instructions how to create the database

* added more instructions

* improve the documentation

* add gantry-api-key as modal secret

* reorganizes SETUP.md and makes dev-env rely on env in Makefile

* adds versions for black and ruff, reverts black version change

* minor text fixes

* removes .DS_Store files from OS X

* reduces png file sizes by ~40%

* reorganize setup information

* minor text fixes

---------

Co-authored-by: Candido Sales Gomes <candidosg@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# 🥞🦜 askFSDL 🦜🥞

askFSDL is a demonstration of a retrieval-augmented question-answering application.

You can try it out via the Discord bot frontend in the
[Full Stack Discord](https://fsdl.me/join-discord-askfsdl)!

We use our educational materials as a corpus:
the [Full Stack LLM Bootcamp](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/llm-bootcamp),
the [Full Stack Deep Learning course](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/course), and
the [Opinionated LLM++ Lit Review](https://tfs.ai/llm-lit-review).

So the resulting application is great at answering questions like

- Which is cheaper: running experiments on cheap, slower GPUs or fast, more expensive GPUs?
- How do I build an ML team?
- What's a data flywheel?
- Should I use a dedicated vector store for my embeddings?
- What is zero-shot chain-of-though reasoning?

## Stack

We use [`langchain`](https://github.com/hwchase17/langchain)
to organize our LLM invocations and prompt magic.

We stood up a MongoDB instance on
[Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database)
to store our cleaned and organized document corpus.
See the `Running ETL to Build the Document Corpus` notebook for details.

For fast search of relevant documents to insert into our prompt,
we use a [FAISS index](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss).

We host the application backend on
[Modal](https://modal.com/),
which provides serverless execution and scaling.
That's also where we execute batch jobs,
like writing to the document store and refreshing the vector index.

For creating a simple user interface in pure Python,
we use [Gradio](https://gradio.app/).
This UI is great for quick tests without deploying a full frontend
but with a better developer experience than curl-ing from the command line.

We host the Discord bot,
written in [`discord.py`](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/),
on a free-tier
[AWS EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/)
instance,
which we provision and configure with
[Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/).

We use
[Gantry](https://gantry.io)
to monitor model behvaior in production and collect feedback from users.

## Run it yourself

Thanks to community contributions,
we can share a best-effort guide to running the application yourself
[here](./setup/).
